README.md, before:

# Disney's API Test Automation Framework

## Setup
1. Install poetry, and Python 3.10 version.
2. Run poetry environment and install libraries `poetry shell` & `poetry install`.
3. `.config.yaml` should be created in root of project. Use `config-template.yaml` to generate config file.

## How to run tests?
- You can run in DEV, STAGING, PROD env. You can change env in `.config.yaml` file that you created.
- Or provide `--env` argument with one of the values (qa, staging, prod). It will override `CONFIG.env`.
```bash
python -m pytest -n auto --reruns 3 -s --env=dev -v tests/  # Run all available tests.
python -m pytest -n auto --reruns 3 -s --env=dev -v -m smoke tests/  # Run all smoke tests. Tests with smoke marker.
```
- `-n auto` = level of parallelism to run multiple tests simultaneously.
- `--reruns 5` = maximum number of times the tests to run if failed.
  - `--reruns-delay 1` = amount of seconds to wait before the next re-run.
- `--lf` or `--last-failed` = to run last failed tests.
- `-v` = verbose, to get more info.
- `-m` = mark expression.

## Configuration 
1. `.config.yaml` includes `API URLs` for DEV, STAGING and PROD envs. 
   - It includes users credentials for superuser, facility admin, facility driver, facility simple user.
   - Superuser -> can control all facilities. Superuser can create a new facility, and facility admin.
   - Facility admin -> can control all users only for his/her facility. 
   - Facility driver -> this type of user, has driver user role.
   - Facility user -> this type of user has limited edit, view authorization only for assigned facility. 
2. If you change the content and schema of config file, you need to change following files too:
   ```text
   /core/enums/environments.py # The list of env: DEV, STAGING, PROD.
   /core/config/__init__.py # Change this file, if you change the schema of config file.
   /tests/conftest.py # Change PyTest hooks.
   /paths.py # The paths for common project files. Change here if you edit the name of config file.
   ```

## Project structure
```text
`\core` includes anything related to framework (HTTP client, API general responses validation, helpers, config).
`\api` contains anything related to product API models, endpoints, query string params.
`\tests` contains all tests.
`\data` includes test data.
`.config.yaml` config file.
```

## Markers in code
You can use project search to find these markers.
```text
#TODO -> the tasks that need to be done in the future.
```

## How to write test for new feature?
1. Learn new feature, create test scenarios, test cases.
2. Create success response models in `api/responses`.
3. Create requests, API services, helper functions in `api/requests`. Validate status code, schema. 
4. Write tests in `tests` folder.

## Models
```text
Response -> status, message, data, error.
SuccessResponse, checks that status is False, data should be object.
ErrorResponse, checks that status is True, error should be object.

Common responses models in common_models.py. Ex: AuthErrorResponse.
    
Other response models are created for successful responses per API.
```

## Response validation plan
1. Validate HTTP status code
2. Validate schema: convert response.json() to pydantic model to check data types, and verify that all fields are present. 
   1. `status` field content is checked via pydantic `SuccessResponse` and `ErrorResponse`.
   2. `error` schema is NOT validated, as it is not defined, and generated by backend framework. We just validate that `error` data type is JSON object.
   3. **TODO: `message` is not validated separately yet for (success, error). We can validate it in model or inside test.**
3. Validate data, and assert result with expected.

## Constraints
```text
1. @mobile() # Fixture for mobile which uses `/?is_for_mobile=true`
2. Authentication -> auth, unauth requests. Users should be created automatically by superuser. 
   - How the new user is created? Superuser creates facility, new role, then new user. Then config.users is updated. Users should be created by pytest hook.
3. Endpoints, endpoints with schema, request & response model.
```

Commit message:

[Customer] Customer tests automated (#3)
* [TAF][Customer] Customer test cases created

* [Customer] Customer tests automated

README.md, after:

# Disney's API Test Automation Framework

## Setup
1. Install poetry, and Python 3.10 version.
2. Run poetry environment and install libraries `poetry shell` & `poetry install`.
3. `.config.yaml` should be created in root of project. Use `config-template.yaml` to generate config file.

## How to run tests?
- You can run in DEV, STAGING, PROD env. You can change env in `.config.yaml` file that you created.
- Or provide `--env` argument with one of the values (qa, staging, prod). It will override `CONFIG.env`.
```bash
python -m pytest -n auto --reruns 3 -s --env=dev -v tests/  # Run all available tests.
python -m pytest -n auto --reruns 3 -s --env=dev -v -m smoke tests/  # Run all smoke tests. Tests with smoke marker.
```
- `-n auto` = level of parallelism to run multiple tests simultaneously.
- `--reruns 5` = maximum number of times the tests to run if failed.
  - `--reruns-delay 1` = amount of seconds to wait before the next re-run.
- `--lf` or `--last-failed` = to run last failed tests.
- `-v` = verbose, to get more info.
- `-m` = mark expression.

## Configuration 
1. `.config.yaml` includes `API URLs` for DEV, STAGING and PROD envs. 
   - It includes users credentials for superuser, facility admin, facility driver, facility simple user.
   - Superuser -> can control all facilities. Superuser can create a new facility, and facility admin.
   - Facility admin -> can control all users only for his/her facility. 
   - Facility driver -> this type of user, has driver user role.
   - Facility user -> this type of user has no EDIT and VIEW permission, and assigned to autogenerated facility.
2. If you change the content and schema of config file, you need to change following files too:
   ```text
   /core/enums/environments.py # The list of env: DEV, STAGING, PROD.
   /core/config/__init__.py # Change this file, if you change the schema of config file.
   /tests/conftest.py # Change PyTest hooks.
   /paths.py # The paths for common project files. Change here if you edit the name of config file.
   ```

## Project structure
```text
`\core` includes anything related to framework (HTTP client, API general responses validation, helpers, config).
`\api` contains anything related to product API models, endpoints, query string params.
`\tests` contains all tests.
`\data` includes test data, and fake request models.
`.config.yaml` config file.
```

## Markers in code
You can use project search to find these markers.
```text
#TODO -> the tasks that need to be done in the future.
```

## How to write test for new feature?
1. Learn new feature, create test scenarios, test cases.
2. Create success response models in `api/responses`.
3. Create requests, API services, helper functions in `api/requests`. Validate status code, schema. 
4. Write tests in `tests` folder.

## Models
```text
Request -> fake request models are inside test data layer.
Response -> status, message, data, error.
SuccessResponse, checks that status is False, data should be object.
ErrorResponse, checks that status is True, error should be object.

Common responses models in common_models.py. Ex: AuthErrorResponse.
    
Other response models are created for successful responses per API.
```

## Response validation plan
1. Validate HTTP status code
2. Validate schema: convert response.json() to pydantic model to check data types, and verify that all fields are present. 
   1. `status` field content is checked via pydantic `SuccessResponse` and `ErrorResponse`.
   2. `error` schema is NOT validated, as it is not defined, and generated by backend framework. We just validate that `error` data type is JSON object.
   3. **TODO: `message` is not validated separately yet for (success, error). We can validate it in model or inside test.**
3. Validate data, and assert result with expected.

## Constraints
```text
1. @mobile() # Fixture for mobile which uses `/?is_for_mobile=true`
2. Authentication -> auth, unauth requests. Users should be created automatically by superuser. 
   - How the new user is created? Superuser creates facility, new role, then new user. Then config.users is updated. Users should be created by pytest hook.
3. Endpoints, endpoints with section, request & response model.
   - Endpoints with section and without section how should be tested that we have error?
     All positive cases, should include the section.
     Web and mobile always use section param.
     So, tests without section param will be considered as NEGATIVE. And we can have separate tests and overwrite API functions. That's okay.
```
